Name	Description	Domain	Subdomain	Alias	Type	Epic_ID	Business_Logic	Operational_Owner	Operational_SME	Technical_SME
Coded Risk Adjustment Factor Average	This metric represents the average Risk Adjustment Factor (RAF) for the population of interest.  This metric aids in understanding the medical complexity of the patients within the population. 	MHACO		Coded RAF	Metric			Ashley Soule	Joanne O'Neil	Lee Pellecchia
Coded Risk Adjustment Factor	"Risk Adjustment Factor (RAF) represents an individual's medical complexity, or acuity, in the form of financial risk.  It is important that providers and payers have a clear understanding of the complexities of the population as a critical
measure to evaluate performance, set benchmarks, bid rates, etc. 
Risk Adjustment models can vary widely and be used in many different contexts including financial models, quality models, and accountable care organizations.  
For MHACO, we use the Risk Adjustment models provided by ARCADIA, specifically the CMS-HCC v24 model which includes the medicare population.  The risk data includes demographic risk scores, current and historical claims and encounters."	MHACO		"RAF, Risk Adjustment"	Term			Ashley Soule	Joanne O'Neil	Lee Pellecchia
Per Member Per Month Cost	"Per Member Per Month metrics are calculated by dividing the total healthcare expenses incurred during a specific period by the total number of member months during that same period. This metric provides a standardized way to compare costs across different populations and allows for better financial planning and budgeting.
This metric can be shown as a total cost or calculated as an average to show trends over time. "	MHACO		PMPM	Metric		PMPM = Total claims expense / total member months 	Ashley Soule	Joanne O'Neil	Lee Pellecchia
Per Member Per Month Medical Cost	This metric (Med PMPM) represents the monthly cost per member medical expenses which includes outpatient and inpatient expenses.  This metric provides a standardized way to compare medical cost across different populations and also helpful in separating the costs out from retail pharmacy costs. This metric can be shown as a total cost or calculated as an average to show trends over time. 	MHACO		Med PMPM	Metric			Ashley Soule	Joanne O'Neil	Lee Pellecchia
Per Member Per Month Retail Pharmacy Cost	This metric (Rx PMPM) represents the monthly cost per member related to retail pharmacy costs.  This metric provides a standardized way to compare pharmacy cost across different populations and also useful in delinating retail pharmacy  from medical costs. This metric can be shown as a total cost or calculated as an average to show trends over time. 	MHACO		Rx PMPM	Metric			Ashley Soule	Joanne O'Neil	Lee Pellecchia
Member Cost	Cost represents the total  paid amount for a member during a given time period. 	MHACO		Cost	Term			Ashley Soule	Joanne O'Neil	Lee Pellecchia
Medical Cost	"This term describes all medical costs including outpatient visits, procedures, and inpatient stay costs. This would not include retail pharmacy costs."	MHACO		Med Cost	Term			Ashley Soule	Joanne O'Neil	Lee Pellecchia
Retail Pharmacy Cost	This term describes all the costs associated with outpatient prescriptions that are purchased at a retail pharmacy. 	MHACO		Rx Cost	Term			Ashley Soule	Joanne O'Neil	Lee Pellecchia
Members Total Cost	This metric represents the total healthcare costs including both medical costs and retail pharmacy cost for the member population for the specified period.  This measure could also be represented by a percentage of the total population costs. 	MHACO		Total Cost	Term			Ashley Soule	Joanne O'Neil	Lee Pellecchia
High Cost Claimant	"MaineHealth defines this as patients who have a total cost greater than or equal to $50,000 per service year. This is a categorization that can be used to identify patients that are outliers in total cost of care.  "	MHACO		HCC	Term			Ashley Soule	Joanne O'Neil	Lee Pellecchia
High Cost Claimant Percentage	This is a percentage of members that are classified as high cost claimants. 	MHACO		% of High Cost Claimant	Metric			Ashley Soule	Joanne O'Neil	Lee Pellecchia
Annualized Member Count	This term is a sum of the member months divided by the number of months in a calendar year. This is used when reporting on partial years in order to display the annual member count total    	MHACO			Metric			Ashley Soule	Joanne O'Neil	Lee Pellecchia
Accountable Care Organization Member	This term includes any patient who is attributed to an ACO provider by the payer	MHACO		Member	Term			Ashley Soule	Joanne O'Neil	Lee Pellecchia
Member Months	Member month refers to the number individuals participating in an insurance plan for the month. Member months are used frequently as a denominator for per member per month metrics.	MHACO			Term			Ashley Soule	Joanne O'Neil	Lee Pellecchia
Region Hierarchy	"This categorization includes health system regions that then subdivides to local health systems, and then further subdivides to a practice or primary care provider. These types of categorizations can be helpful when understanding differences in performance across the health system. "	MHACO		"Region, LHS, Practice"	Term			Ashley Soule	Joanne O'Neil	Lee Pellecchia
Service Year	This term is defined as the calendar year that the patient was atributed to the Accountable Care Organization and cost was occured. 	MHACO		Service Period	Term			Ashley Soule	Joanne O'Neil	Lee Pellecchia
Payer	"Payers in the health care industry are organizations — such as health plan providers, Medicare, and Medicaid — that set service rates, collect payments, process claims, and pay provider claims. "	MHACO			Term			Ashley Soule	Joanne O'Neil	Lee Pellecchia
Service Category	"This allows categorization of costs by type of service. At the highest category, this breaksdown to inpatient, outpatient, and pharmacy."	MHACO		Cost Category	Term			Ashley Soule	Joanne O'Neil	Lee Pellecchia
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
										
